.\" Michal Svec <msvec@suse.cz>
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.\"
.TH YAST2 8 "January 2003" "yast2" "System configuration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
YaST2 \- universal configuration utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yast2 [
.I options
.B ] [
.I module
.B ] [
.I module specific options
.B ]
.br
.B yast2 --install
.I <package>
.B [
.I <package>
.B [
.I ...
.B ] ]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B YaST2
is used to configure the system. It can configure a common hardware
(sound cards, printers, keyboards, mice), network connections (network
cards, ISDN cards, modems, DSL connections), network clients and services
(NFS, NIS), as well as a general system options (language, partitioning,
software, bootloader).

.br
.B YaST2
comes with three frontends:
.B GTK
,
.B QT
and
.B ncurses.
All frontends are functionally equivalent.
The correct frontend is selected automatically based on the available
components and the current environment (the DISPLAY variable).

.br
Use
.B yast2
alone to launch the
.B YaST2 Control Center
from which you can select a particular configuration module or use
.B yast2 <module>
to launch the module directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.B -g, --geometry
Default window size (QT frontend only).
.\"
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print a usage and exit.
.\"
.TP
.B -i, --install <package> [ <package> [ ... ] ]
Install an RPM package. The
.B package
can be a single short package name (e.g. gvim)
which will be installed with dependency checking, or the full
path to an rpm package (e.g /tmp/gvim.rpm) which will be
installed without dependency checking.
.\"
.\" #222757
.TP
.B --remove <package> [ <package> [ ... ] ]
Remove an RPM package. The
.B package
can be short package names (e.g. gvim)
which will be removed with dependency checking.
.\"
.TP
.B -l, --list
List all available modules. To obtain usage info about
a module, use "yast module help".
.\"
.TP
.BI --log " " logfile
Write info to
.B logfile.
.\"
.TP
.B -s, --style
Widget style (QT frontend only).
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES WITH COMMAND LINE INTERFACE
.TP
This is a list of YaST modules currently supporting command line interface:
.P
answering_machine, bootloader, ca_mgm, dhcp-server, dns, dns-server, fax,
firewall, groups, host, http-server, idedma, inetd, irda, kerberos-client,
keyboard, lan, language, ldap, mail, mouse, nfs, nfs_server, nis, nis_server,
ntp-client, power-management, powertweak, printer, profile-manager, proxy,
remote, routing, runlevel, samba-client, samba-server, security, sound,
sysconfig, tftp-server, timezone, tv, users
.\"
.P
To obtain a list of basic commands for using a YaST module
with support for command line interface, use:
.\"
.br
.B yast2
.I module
.B help
.br
.\"
.P
To get more comprehensive information about the commands
available for a YaST module, use:
.\"
.br
.B yast2
.I module
.B longhelp
.br
.\"
.P
To get information about the commands available for a YaST
module in a XML formatted file, use:
.\"
.br
.B yast2
.I module
.B xmlhelp
.B xmlfile= \fI<filename>\fP
.br
.\"
.P
To get information about a specific command of a YaST
module, use:
.\"
.br
.B yast2
.I module
.I command
.B help
.br
.\"
.P
To start an interactive console in which you can execute
commands of a YaST module, use
.\"
.br
.B yast2
.I module
.B interactive
.br
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/var/log/YaST2/*
Logs
.TP
$HOME/.yast2/gui, /etc/YaST2/gui
May contain a single word, "qt", "gtk", or "ncurses" to specify the
preferred GUI for cases when DISPLAY is available.
\" .SH BUGS
\" Please report bugs at http://www.suse.de/feedback
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Michal Svec <msvec@suse.cz> - manual page
Jakub Friedl <jfriedl@suse.cz> - manual page
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Documentation in /usr/share/doc/packages/yast2*.
.\"
.\" EOF
